Computers need cooling to remove the heat their components generate during use. If you’re building your own PC — especially if you’re overclocking it — you’ll need to think about how you’ll cool it.

Heat build-up can actually damage your computer’s hardware or cause it to become unstable. Modern PCs may shut down and refuse to operate if they reach a potentially unsafe level of heat.
There is four ways to reduce that heat:
	Heat Sinks : A heat sink is a passive cooling system that cools a component by dissipating heat. For example, your CPU probably has a heat sink on top of it — that’s the large, metal object.
	Thermal Compound : CPUs and GPUs generally have a thermal compound between them and the heat sink. This may be called thermal grease, thermal gel, thermal paste, heat sink paste, or many other things. This material is smeared on top of the CPU, and then the heat sink is pressed down on top. The thermal compound fills any air gaps between the heat-producing component and the heat sink allowing more efficient transfer of heat. Be careful when applying this stuff, as you don’t want to use too much — you just want enough to fill in the air gaps between the CPU and heat sink, not so much that it will ooze out the sides and make a mess.
	Fans : Fans force air to move, so the hot air is blown away from heat-generating components and expelled from the desktop or laptop PC‘s case. Fans typically blow hot air outward, but you could set up a system of fans to suck cool air inward on the front and blow out air out the back. Fans are an active cooling solution — they require power to run.
	Water Cooling : The above methods are the typical types of cooling solutions you’ll find in most PCs, although some power-efficient PCs are designed to work without fans. Still, enthusiasts sometimes opt for more extreme cooling solutions.
Water cooling, or liquid cooling, was originally for mainframes. Enthusiasts who want to overclock their hardware and push it as far as possible like water cooling because it’s more effective at cooling than fans, so a water-cooled PC can be overclocked further.
Water cooling involves a pump that pumps water through tubes that travel throughout your PC’s case. The cool water in the tubes absorb heat as it moves through your case and then leaves your case, where a radiator radiates the heat outward. This is only necessary if you need to deal with an extreme amount of heat — for example, if you’re overclocking more than typical cooling solutions can handle.
